1) introduction and Motivation

Introduction: 

minimal coupling rule griffiths pg 360. this is the mechanism that we create the covariant derivative. Starting with the legre, we suppose local gauge invariance, which creates the need to create the covariant derivative 

	gauge symmetry structure : SU2LxU1 sym with associated quantum numbers

	the creating of higgs and matterfields

	10^16 gauge unified : I believe that this is the crossing of the gauge fields coupling constants at the above energy scale

	 i) the mystery of the Higgs sector and the origin of the electroweak scale,
 	100 GeV (electro weak scale / gauge bosons)

	the higgs mechanism: 
		In sm we know that the electro weak has to be broken (boson mass), this is the simpilest version of this (obeys gauge symmetry)
	 ii) the origin of quark and lepton masses in the SM.
 	yukawa coupling to the higgs , because the parity violation of the standard model (left and right have different quantum number), we can not couple the left hand (doublet under Su2) to the right hand(singlet under Su2). We must(?) introduce the higgs to couple them in the yukawa legrangian ( we can check this emperically from the top quark)

 	yukawa couple left to right with higgs, higgs needed to make the lin alg work (doublet doublet singlet), because SM is parity vio
Motivation:
	hierarchy problem:
		 the SM has quadratic diveregences, which need to be adjusted at each order of pertabation theory

		when cacluating the higgs mass through the ultra violet cutoff method (proper name?), the higgs wants to be at the largest mass scale of the theory. SO we need to fine tune (point above) to get rid of this.

		the introduction of the super symmetry naturally cancels these naturally, which is a large part of the motivation

		"the little hierarchy problem": that the mssm masses are too different , making the above cancelization not work as cleanly

		This leads to the idea of supersymmetry and the minimal supersymmetric extension of the SM (the MSSM) to address i) above, and the importance of supersymmetry breaking both for i) and (indirectly) ii).

	to i) (the super parnters are not the same masses clearly, so susy must be broken) .  to ii) , our model has parameterizes the betas, which we are looking to see how this affects the mass spectrums of the quark and leptons



defs:
hidden sector: no direct standard model interacts between that sector of the theory and "our world". Fields that live in the hidden sector have no "charges" (they dont transform with the sm gauge trans). No quantum numbers. They could (do) have gravitational interactions, as this is not in the SM. 

Mediation is needed to mix the sm to the hidden sector (X_h), 

flavoured gauge mediation means that the higgs and the messengers are mixing

lisa skype notes:
Ingredients of gauge mediation:
"hidden" sector field(s) X
X does not feel the strong, weak, or EM interactions.
SM quantum numbers of X (SU(3)_c, SU(2)_L, U(1)_Y)=(1,1,0)
Messenger fields:
psi, psibar
psi and psibar must transform wrt SM
psi, psibar couple via Yukawa coupling to the hidden field X
X psi psibar
(psi psibar) combination must be SM singlet
but psi itself can have SM quantum numbers:

psi = (1,2,1/2)

psibar = (1, 2bar=2, -1/2)

(psibar psi) = (1,1,0)

Flavored gauge mediation: the psi, psibar mix with the Higgs Hu, Hd of the MSSM
They have the same SM quantum numbers, so they can mix

minimal gauge mediation: messengers only have Yukawa couplings to X. They don't have Yukawa couplings to the SM quarks and leptons.

not minimal gauge mediation, because the observed higgs mass is too large, and we would need to make the super partners very heavy to fix this descrepency


Gauge Mediation:
GM paper
"The pos- sibility then exists to break SUSY dynamically, but in some sector which only couples to the SM sector via loops or via non-renormalizable opera- tors. We then refer to the SUSY-breaking sector as “hidden,” the SM sector as “visible,” and the intermediate states, which appear in loops or are integrated out to produce the non-renormalizable interactions, as “messengers” or “mediators.”
"
"We then refer to the SUSY-breaking sector as “hidden,” the SM sector as “visible,” and the intermediate states, which appear in loops or are integrated out to produce the non-renormalizable interactions, as “messengers” or “mediators.”" ask lisa bout the intermediate states part, also ask about N = 1

how you dont just go from particle to super particle
"With arbitrary, random pa- rameters the MSSM has serious problems with flavor (and also CP) violation. Put simply, once SUSY is broken, sparticles and particles need not be diagonal in the same eigenbasis. That is, the rotations which take the fermions from their in- teraction to their mass eigenstates need not do the same for their superpartners. If we􏰑 denote these unitary rotation matrices as U and U for the fermions and scalars respectively, then the inter- ation of a gaugino with a fermion and its scalar partner picks up a factor U†U􏰑 ̸= 1, leading to flavor-changing neutral currents (FCNCs)."

 "If the scalar soft masses were functions only of the gauge charges of the individual sparticles, universality would be automatic." in min gauge mediation text, ask lisa bout this

"Because the ψˆ fields are charged under the SM gauge groups, the gauginos of the MSSM can re- ceive masses through loops of these new fields. " lisa? 

gauginos get masses at 1 loop, scalars at 2 loops, then trilinear soft terms at second loop as well

"Finally, the trilinear soft terms (A-terms) arise at 2-loops. Since they have mass dimension-1, they are small compared to the rest of the soft masses and thus one can take A(M) ≃ 0."

"One success of this particular mechanism for gauge mediation is that while gaugino masses arise at 1-loop, scalar mass-squareds arise at 2- loops. Thus gaugino and scalar masses are the same order in α. This is a noteworthy, be- cause the simplest models of gauge mediation (those without the messenger fields) typically give masses to scalars at lower order than to gauginos, producing models with ultra-light gluinos."

super gravity?




