Thesis outline:

1) Introduction/Motivation. 
This includes a discussion of the SM: gauge symmetry structure, matter content, the Higgs mechanism and electroweak symmetry breaking.

Next, why we need physics beyond the SM: can focus here on two specific issues i) the mystery of the Higgs sector and the origin of the electroweak scale, and ii) the origin of quark and lepton masses in the SM.

This leads to the idea of supersymmetry and the minimal supersymmetric extension of the SM (the MSSM) to address i) above, and the importance of supersymmetry breaking both for i) and (indirectly) ii).

2) Flavored Gauge Mediation (FGM) background.
This includes a brief discussion of gauge mediation in its minimal form (known as minimal gauge mediation or MGM), and the extension to "flavored gauge mediation," in which the Higgs and messenger fields mix with each other.


This is also the place to discuss the need for symmetries to control this mixing. Here is the place to first introduce the S_3 framework for flavored gauge mediation that we study here. This introduction would provide a brief summary of the Higgs-messenger sector of the model.

3) Models of fermion mass generation within FGM with the discrete non-Abelian symmetry S_3. 
Discuss options for how to couple the SM quarks and leptons to the Higgs to generate masses. 

The first level of classification is 
option i) "Model A," disconnect the S_3 from fermion mass generation by making all MSSM matter fields blind to this symmetry
option ii) "Model B," have the MSSM fields have nontrivial S_3 charges. Focus here on ii).
Discuss this option: results for the Yukawa couplings in terms of the parameters beta_1,2,3,4.

The next level of classification is on how to get hierarchical masses.
i) "Model B1":  beta_1=1, beta_4 = beta_2 beta_3.  This includes both "singlet-dominated" and "democratic" examples. Previously studied by Todd, Ariel, etc.
ii) "Model B2": beta_1=-1, beta_4 = 0, beta_2,3 scale as first and second generation masses. 
Not studied yet in detail prior to this work.

Focus of the thesis is on Model B2. First step is the case with only third generation masses nonzero ("Model B20"). Next is to switch on second generation masses to get a more detailed scenario (we need to name it. I'll call it "Model B21" for now.)

4) Numerical Analysis and Results. 
Describe SoftSUSY and what it does (roughly).

Model B20. masses, composition of states as a function of messenger mass, tan(beta), etc. Same for Model B21.
Compare/contrast to singlet-dominated and democratic cases.

Possibly: prospects for probing these scenarios at the LHC (rough). 

Possibly: discuss off-diagonal contributions to delta m's for Model B21, and their physical consequences.
 
5) Conclusions