"hierarchy problem"

Since we know that in the Standard Model, the physical Higgs boson mass,
Mh, must be less than around 1 TeV (in order to keep the WW scattering
cross section from violating unitarity), we have the unpleasant result,
M2
h = M2
h,0 + δM2
h + counterterm, (13)
where the counterterm must be adjusted to a precision of roughly 1 part in
1015 in order to cancel the quadratically divergent contributions to δM2
h
. This
adjustment must be made at each order in perturbation theory. This is known
as the “hierarchy problem”.

 the Higgs mass wants to be close to the largest mass scale in the theory.
 (i believe to ultraviolet cut off)

 aux fields? Super fields constraints
 tree level:
 	leading order feynman diagrams
 little hierarchy problem: that the super partners are too massive to conce the quadratic divergence correctly

 i) the mystery of the Higgs sector and the origin of the electroweak scale,
 	100 GeV (electro weak scale / gauge bosons)

 	10^16 gauge unified 

 	gauge fields and matter fields

 	need the higgs to give you a mass of the w boson in a meaningful way (~800 geV)

 	In sm we know that the electro weak has to be broken (boson mass), this is the simpilest version of this (obeys gauge symmetry)

 ii) the origin of quark and lepton masses in the SM.
 	yukawa coupling to the higgs , because the parity violation of the standard model (left and right have different quantum number), we can not couple the left hand (doublet under Su2) to the right hand(singlet under Su2). We must(?) introduce the higgs to couple them in the yukawa legrangian ( we can check this emperically from the top quark)

 	go to quadratic divergence (fine tuning and the hierarch problem)


This leads to the idea of supersymmetry and the minimal supersymmetric extension of the SM (the MSSM) to address i) above, and the importance of supersymmetry breaking both for i) and (indirectly) ii).

to i) (the super parnters are not the same masses clearly, so susy must be broken) .  to ii) , our model has parameterizes the betas, which we are looking to see how this affects the mass spectrums of the quark and leptons
